README.md, before:

TeamCity Deployment Dashboard
=============================

A TeamCity plugin that shows a high level view of what builds have been deployed into what
environments across multiple projects.

Features
--------

* Single pane of glass showing all deployments into different environments.
* Shows deployments for the current project and all sub-projects, and can be configured at any
level to show different environments.
* Visualises deployment result, showing success, error, or in progress.
* Shows deployment time or the date if not today.
* Dashboard deployments link to the original deployment build.
* Project and environment names can be taken from the project/build name, or be configured to use
values of a configuration parameter, environment variable or by system property.
* Shows deployment version as taken from the build number.
* Highlights the latest version to emphasise build journey to production (assuming semver-formatted
version string).
* Real-time search to quickly narrow large numbers of projects.
* Auto-refresh capability with configurable polling period.
* Pretty.


Example
-------

<img src="screenshot.png" width="954"/>


Getting Started
---------------

1. Install the plugin via the TeamCity Plugin Portal.
2. Restart TeamCity as prompted.
3. Enable plugin in project configuration, listed as a new entry in the sidebar "Deployment Dashboard".

Once enabled, a new "Deployments" project tab will appear on deployment builds showing the dashboard
content, and all subprojects.

A deployment build in TeamCity can be selected from the build configuration's "General" tab. This
changes a build's "Run" button to "Deploy" and lists it on the build overview.



Environments
------------

TeamCity does not have (or probably need), the notion of a deployment environment. However, the
dashboard needs to be able to correlate build configurations (and the deployment builds that are
created) with an environment so it can be placed in the relevant part of the dashboard.

The deployment dashboard classifies a build deployments as part of a particular environment,
either by a build variable<sup>[1](#f1)</sup> or by the name of the build configuration (though the
latter is arguably less useful being more likely to be an action such as "Deploy Dev").


Configuration
-------------

Enabling the plugin in the configuration will show three settings.

<img src="screenshot-config.png" width="948"/>

1. Project key: This is used to customise the project name shown in the dashboard and can be used
in the case where the name of the immediate project is not appropriate. If it is appropriate, leave 
this blank, otherwise the dashboard will be picked up from the build property<sup>[1](#f1)</sup>
named by this key.
2. Environment key: This signifies the build property<sup>[1](#f1)</sup> that indicates the
environment name, e.g. Dev, UAT.
3. Environments: This lists all the possible environments, and will determine the columns shown on
the dashboard. If the environment of the build is not in this list, it will not appear on the
dashboard.

Projects inherit parent configuration unless overridden at a lower level. If all projects in a 
TeamCity instance are the same, the configuration only needs to be set in the root project.


TeamCity Project Configuration Scenarios
----------------------------------------

Here are a couple of good ways of structuring build configurations, both of which work
well with the deployment dashboard.

**Scenario 1**

A natural way to setup TeamCity is to split deployments into environments by using separate
build configuration and link them using snapshot dependencies so that they can be represented
on a pipeline (or 'build chain' in TeamCity parlance). Then set a build variable<sup>[1](#f1)</sup>
on each deployment stage to indicate the environment to the dashboard.

**Scenario 2**

When using dedicated TeamCity agents for each environment, an environment variable or system
property defined in the agent configuration could be used rather than specifically as part of
the build. Since the build inherits these variables, the deployment dashboard will work as normal.
This allows leveraging agent requirements to indicate the environment.

Note that the deployments for each environment still currently have to be in separate build
configurations and so this scenario will need to used via agent requirements. Ideally this scenario
would be more fully supported, but the plugin only gets the last build for any build configuration
for efficiency reasons as we cannot query the entire build history to find deployments for each
environment. It may be we can use a slower approach via configuration for those that need it.


Scaling to Multiple Teams with the Project Hierarchy
----------------------------------------------------

The dashboard shows deployments for the current project and all sub-projects. This allows the 
greatest visibility at the higher levels. However, it can be hard to find consistency between 
multiple teams, what their environments are called and what properties in TeamCity they use to 
classify them.

There are two ways to handle this:

1. Only enable the dashboard at lower levels of the project hierarchy. Ideally teams would have 
their own configuration branch in TeamCity where it is much easier to make deployment builds 
consistent.
2. Only define the environments that all teams can agree on at the top levels of the project 
hierarchy, such as Development, UAT and Production. Then override the dashboard configuration 
at lower levels to be more specific. A team that has an additional performance testing 
environment can then see all their deployments, the additional environment just won't be shown 
at the top level.


Deployment Visibility
---------------------

Builds in TeamCity will be performed for many reasons and not all of them will be relevant to 
show on the dashboard. This plugin will only show builds if the following are true:

1. Has a build configuration type set to `Deployment` and therefore has a 'Deploy' button rather 
than 'Run'
   * See: TeamCity / Project Configuration / Build configuration type
2. Has a property<sup>[1](#f1)</sup> matching the project key when not blank.
3. Has a property<sup>[1](#f1)</sup> that matches the environment key when not blank.
4. The environment deployed to is contained in the list of configured environments.
5. It is the most recent non-cancelled build for that build configuration.


Implementation
--------------

This project is written in JavaScript and React for the frontend, and Kotlin for the backend.
The backend manages configuration, queries the build data, and provides a REST endpoint to
provide the React frontend the required deployment data.


Possible Future Features
------------------------

* Show real-time progress by having the frontend subscribe to build changes via server-sent events.
* Efficiently look for multiple environment deployments within the same build configuration.
Currently we only get the most recent as it's not clear to know when to stop unless we make it
configurable. See in TeamCity Project Configuration Scenario #2 above.


Notes
-----

<a name="f1">1</a>: Build variables are defined using the normal TeamCity convention for addressing
build variables, and can be a configuration parameter (no prefix), environment variable (prefix of
'env.') or system property with prefix of 'system.'.

Commit message:

Added example scenario combining environment as well as region

README.md, after:

TeamCity Deployment Dashboard
=============================

A TeamCity plugin that shows a high level view of what builds have been deployed into what
environments across multiple projects.

Features
--------

* Single pane of glass showing all deployments into different environments.
* Shows deployments for the current project and all sub-projects, and can be configured at any
level to show different environments.
* Visualises deployment result, showing success, error, or in progress.
* Shows deployment time or the date if not today.
* Dashboard deployments link to the original deployment build.
* Project and environment names can be taken from the project/build name, or be configured to use
values of a configuration parameter, environment variable or by system property.
* Shows deployment version as taken from the build number.
* Highlights the latest version to emphasise build journey to production (assuming semver-formatted
version string).
* Real-time search to quickly narrow large numbers of projects.
* Auto-refresh capability with configurable polling period.
* Pretty.


Example
-------

<img src="screenshot.png" width="954"/>


Getting Started
---------------

1. Install the plugin via the TeamCity Plugin Portal.
2. Restart TeamCity as prompted.
3. Enable plugin in project configuration, listed as a new entry in the sidebar "Deployment Dashboard".

Once enabled, a new "Deployments" project tab will appear on deployment builds showing the dashboard
content, and all subprojects.

A deployment build in TeamCity can be selected from the build configuration's "General" tab. This
changes a build's "Run" button to "Deploy" and lists it on the build overview.



Environments
------------

TeamCity does not have (or probably need), the notion of a deployment environment. However, the
dashboard needs to be able to correlate build configurations (and the deployment builds that are
created) with an environment so it can be placed in the relevant part of the dashboard.

The deployment dashboard classifies a build deployments as part of a particular environment,
either by a build variable<sup>[1](#f1)</sup> or by the name of the build configuration (though the
latter is arguably less useful being more likely to be an action such as "Deploy Dev").


Configuration
-------------

Enabling the plugin in the configuration will show three settings.

<img src="screenshot-config.png" width="948"/>

1. Project key: This is used to customise the project name shown in the dashboard and can be used
in the case where the name of the immediate project is not appropriate. If it is appropriate, leave 
this blank, otherwise the dashboard will be picked up from the build property<sup>[1](#f1)</sup>
named by this key.
2. Environment key: This signifies the build property<sup>[1](#f1)</sup> that indicates the
environment name, e.g. Dev, UAT.
3. Environments: This lists all the possible environments, and will determine the columns shown on
the dashboard. If the environment of the build is not in this list, it will not appear on the
dashboard.

Projects inherit parent configuration unless overridden at a lower level. If all projects in a 
TeamCity instance are the same, the configuration only needs to be set in the root project.


TeamCity Project Configuration Scenarios
----------------------------------------

Here are some ideas to help support different build configurations.

**Scenario 1**

A natural way to setup TeamCity is to split deployments into environments by using separate
build configuration and link them using snapshot dependencies so that they can be represented
on a pipeline (or 'build chain' in TeamCity parlance). Then set a build variable<sup>[1](#f1)</sup>
on each deployment stage to indicate the environment to the dashboard.

**Scenario 2**

When using dedicated TeamCity agents for each environment, an environment variable or system
property defined in the agent configuration could be used rather than specifically as part of
the build. Since the build inherits these variables, the deployment dashboard will work as normal.
This allows leveraging agent requirements to indicate the environment.

Note that the deployments for each environment still currently have to be in separate build
configurations and so this scenario will need to used via agent requirements. Ideally this scenario
would be more fully supported, but the plugin only gets the last build for any build configuration
for efficiency reasons as we cannot query the entire build history to find deployments for each
environment. It may be we can use a slower approach via configuration for those that need it.

**Scenario 3**

Some environment consist of multiple deployment locations, such as deploying to different cloud
regions. One way of visualising such multi-region deployments is to define a new composite
parameter that combines environment and region. For example, DEV and PRD in region EUR and USA
could be done by defining a parameter with a value like `%environment%-%region%`. Once the plugin
has been configured to use this new parameter as the environment key, the environment list of
deploys to show would be `DEV-EUR,DEV-USA,DEV-EUR,PRD-USA`.


Scaling to Multiple Teams with the Project Hierarchy
----------------------------------------------------

The dashboard shows deployments for the current project and all sub-projects. This allows the 
greatest visibility at the higher levels. However, it can be hard to find consistency between 
multiple teams, what their environments are called and what properties in TeamCity they use to 
classify them.

There are two ways to handle this:

1. Only enable the dashboard at lower levels of the project hierarchy. Ideally teams would have 
their own configuration branch in TeamCity where it is much easier to make deployment builds 
consistent.
2. Only define the environments that all teams can agree on at the top levels of the project 
hierarchy, such as Development, UAT and Production. Then override the dashboard configuration 
at lower levels to be more specific. A team that has an additional performance testing 
environment can then see all their deployments, the additional environment just won't be shown 
at the top level.


Deployment Visibility
---------------------

Builds in TeamCity will be performed for many reasons and not all of them will be relevant to 
show on the dashboard. This plugin will only show builds if the following are true:

1. Has a build configuration type set to `Deployment` and therefore has a 'Deploy' button rather 
than 'Run'
   * See: TeamCity / Project Configuration / Build configuration type
2. Has a property<sup>[1](#f1)</sup> matching the project key when not blank.
3. Has a property<sup>[1](#f1)</sup> that matches the environment key when not blank.
4. The environment deployed to is contained in the list of configured environments.
5. It is the most recent non-cancelled build for that build configuration.


Implementation
--------------

This project is written in JavaScript and React for the frontend, and Kotlin for the backend.
The backend manages configuration, queries the build data, and provides a REST endpoint to
provide the React frontend the required deployment data.


Possible Future Features
------------------------

* Show real-time progress by having the frontend subscribe to build changes via server-sent events.
* Efficiently look for multiple environment deployments within the same build configuration.
Currently we only get the most recent as it's not clear to know when to stop unless we make it
configurable. See in TeamCity Project Configuration Scenario #2 above.


Notes
-----

<a name="f1">1</a>: Build variables are defined using the normal TeamCity convention for addressing
build variables, and can be a configuration parameter (no prefix), environment variable (prefix of
'env.') or system property with prefix of 'system.'.
